New tracing product page (#11607)
getsentry/sentry-docs: docs/product/tracing/index.mdx

---
title: Tracing
sidebar_order: 20

> description: "Learn about using tracing and distributed tracing for observing and debugging application performance issues. You'll see the impact of errors across your full stack and microservices."

Author: ```suggestion
description: "Learn how instrumenting tracing for both your frontend and backend can help identify and debug application performance issues. Distributed tracing will allow you to see the impact of errors across your full stack and microservices."
```

---

## Tracing

Tracing is the process of capturing the timing and flow of requests and operations as they happen throughout your application. It can be a powerful debugging tool, helping you identify which link in a sequence of events is causing a problem.

![An image of a trace with spans.](./img/The-anatomy-of-a-trace.png)

### What's Distributed Tracing?

Distributed tracing provides a unified view of how a single request moves from the frontend to the backend and beyond. This is particularly useful in modern applications, which are often composed of multiple services working together. To get a distributed view of your application, instrument Sentry in both your frontend and your backend.

> With distributed tracing, you can identify performance bottlenecks that are affecting your application no matter where in your application's workflowthey occur. You can then use Sentry tools such as the Trace Explorer or Trace View page to dig deeper and find the root cause of the problem. Distributed tracing is particularly helpful for identifying problems you can't just debug using console logs, such as race conditions, N+1, and caching issues.

Author: ```suggestion
With distributed tracing, you can identify performance bottlenecks that are affecting your application no matter where in your application's workflow they occur. You can then use Sentry tools such as the [Trace Explorer](/product/explore/traces/) or [Trace View](/concepts/key-terms/tracing/trace-view/) page to dig deeper and find the root cause of the problem. Distributed tracing is particularly helpful for identifying problems you can't just debug using console logs, such as race conditions, [N+1](/product/issues/issue-details/performance-issues/n-one-queries/), and [caching issues](/product/insights/caches/).
```

### What's a Trace?

> Each trace has a string of globally unique characters called a trace ID, that's shared by both frontend and backend services they help connect all the actions that take place to make an event such as a button click or a page scroll. Each trace is composed of multiple spans.

Author: ```suggestion
Each trace has a string of globally unique characters called a trace ID that's passed between frontend and backend services. The trace ID connects all the actions that take place, starting from the moment a user performs an action on the frontend, all the way through to the actions this triggers across your application and services. Each trace is composed of multiple spans.
```

### What's a Span?

> A span is a named, timed operation that represents a part of the application workflow. It provides granular insights into specific tasks, like API requests or database queries. Multiple spans are pieced together to create a trace. providing a comprehensive view of its path, timing, and interactions for troubleshooting and performance analysis.

Reviewer: Looks like there's a typo here "trace. providing a comprehensive..." (should be a comma?)

Author: good catch!

> A span is a named, timed operation that represents a part of the application workflow. It provides granular insights into specific tasks, like API requests or database queries. Multiple spans are pieced together to create a trace. providing a comprehensive view of its path, timing, and interactions for troubleshooting and performance analysis.

Author: ```suggestion
A span is a named, timed operation that represents a part of the application workflow. It provides granular insights into specific tasks, like API requests or database queries. Multiple spans are pieced together to create a trace, providing a comprehensive view of its path, timing, and interactions for troubleshooting and performance analysis.
```

### What's a Transaction?

> Transactions are a Sentry-specific unit of measurement that references any event that users send to Sentry. In addition to standard event fields, transactions also contains child spans and have a unique transaction ID.

Reviewer: I think this description is a bit confusing and you could say something like:

"Transactions are groups of spans that represent a higher level operation within a service or app, like loading a web page or handling a call to an API endpoint."

Author: Do you think it's helpful to keep "Sentry-specific"?

## How to Use Tracing in Sentry

To get the most out of tracing in Sentry, you'll need to instrument both the frontend and backend of your application with Sentry's SDK. Once this is done, there are several places where you can view and interact with tracing data:

> **Explore to Traces to Trace View**

Author: ```suggestion
### Explore to Traces to Trace View
```

> ### Explore to Traces to Trace View

Author: ```suggestion
### Traces to Trace View
```

> To get the most out of tracing in Sentry, you'll need to instrument both the frontend and backend of your application with Sentry's SDK. Once this is done, there are several places where you can view and interact with tracing data:

Reviewer: We're currently moving towards emphasizing the usefulness of partial traces as well. In other words, even if it's _only_ your frontend or backend that's instrumented and not the entire distributed system, the partial trace still provides useful context for debugging issues _within_ that app or service. I think you can still say that the best experience is by instrumenting both the frontend and the backend together, but maybe make it sound like less of a requirement in case a customer wants to get started by instrumenting only one part of their stack.

> You can view all the traces in your organization by going to the [Traces](https://sentry.io/orgredirect/organizations/:orgslug/traces/) page in Sentry. You'll see a chart and a list of traces and be able to see at-a-glance how long each trace took to complete and the number of spans it contains.

Reviewer: Maybe worth mentioning that it also shows you where the trace originated (e.g. loading a specific page in your app)

> If you want more information, click on any trace ID. This will take you to the [Trace View](https://sentry.io/orgredirect/organizations/:orgslug/traces/:traceid/) page, which provides a more detailed view of the trace and its spans. Here, you'll see a waterfall view of the spans in the trace, which will show you how long each service and process took to complete and may give you an indicator of where a problem may be coming from. Learn more about the Sentry [Trace View](/platform/explore/trace-view/).

Author: ```suggestion
If you want more information, click on any trace ID. This will take you to the [Trace View](https://sentry.io/orgredirect/organizations/:orgslug/traces/traceid/) page, which provides a more detailed view of the trace and its spans. Here, you'll see a waterfall view of the spans in the trace, which will show you how long each service and process took to complete and may give you an indicator of where a problem may be coming from. Learn more about the Sentry [Trace View](/concepts/key-terms/tracing/trace-view/).
```

> If you want more information, click on any trace ID. This will take you to the [Trace View](https://sentry.io/orgredirect/organizations/:orgslug/traces/traceid/) page, which provides a more detailed view of the trace and its spans. Here, you'll see a waterfall view of the spans in the trace, which will show you how long each service and process took to complete and may give you an indicator of where a problem may be coming from. Learn more about the Sentry [Trace View](/concepts/key-terms/tracing/trace-view/).

Reviewer: "which will show you how long each service and process took"

maybe "which will show you how much time was spent in each service and operation"

> If you want more information, click on any trace ID. This will take you to the [Trace View](https://sentry.io/orgredirect/organizations/:orgslug/traces/traceid/) page, which provides a more detailed view of the trace and its spans. Here, you'll see a waterfall view of the spans in the trace, which will show you how long each service and process took to complete and may give you an indicator of where a problem may be coming from. Learn more about the Sentry [Trace View](/concepts/key-terms/tracing/trace-view/).

Author: ```suggestion
If you want more information, click on any trace ID. This will take you to the [Trace View](https://sentry.io/orgredirect/organizations/:orgslug/traces/traceid/) page, which provides a more detailed view of the trace and its spans. Here, you'll see a waterfall view of the spans in the trace, which will show you how much time each service and operation took to complete, and may give you an indicator of where a problem may be coming from. Learn more about the Sentry [Trace View](/concepts/key-terms/tracing/trace-view/).
```

Alternatively, you can use the search bar to look for traces by name, project, or other criteria. You can also use the tags section to filter traces by specific tags. Learn more about the Sentry [Trace Explorer](/platform/explore/trace-explorer/).

> **Performance to Trace View**

Author: ```suggestion
### Performance to Trace View
```

> Alternatively, you can use the search bar to look for traces by name, project, or other criteria. You can also use the tags section to filter traces by specific tags. Learn more about the Sentry [Trace Explorer](/platform/explore/trace-explorer/).
> 

Author: ```suggestion
Alternatively, you can use the search bar to look for traces by name, project, or other criteria. You can also use the tags section to filter traces by specific tags. Learn more about the Sentry [Trace Explorer](/product/explore/traces/).

```

> Alternatively, you can use the search bar to look for traces by name, project, or other criteria. You can also use the tags section to filter traces by specific tags. Learn more about the Sentry [Trace Explorer](/product/explore/traces/).

Reviewer: It doesn't search for traces directly, you search for spans and then it surfaces spans & traces matching that criteria

> Alternatively, you can use the search bar to look for traces by name, project, or other criteria. You can also use the tags section to filter traces by specific tags. Learn more about the Sentry [Trace Explorer](/product/explore/traces/).

Author: ```suggestion
Alternatively, you can use the search bar to look for spans by name, project, or other criteria. You can also use the tags section to filter spans by specific tags. Learn more about the Sentry [Trace Explorer](/product/explore/traces/).
```

> If you're interested in a high-level view of your application's performance, you can start from the [Performance](https://sentry.io/orgredirect/organizations/:orgslug/performance/) page in Sentry where you'll see a list of transactions. Clicking on the transaction ID will take you to the Trace View page for that transaction. Learn more about using Sentry's [Performance Monitoring](/platform/performance-monitoring/).

Author: ```suggestion
If you're interested in a high-level view of your application's performance, you can start from the [Performance](https://sentry.io/orgredirect/organizations/:orgslug/performance/) page in Sentry where you'll see a list of transactions. Clicking on the transaction ID will take you to the Trace View page for that transaction. Learn more about using Sentry's [Performance Monitoring](/product/performance/).
```

> If you're interested in a high-level view of your application's performance, you can start from the [Performance](https://sentry.io/orgredirect/organizations/:orgslug/performance/) page in Sentry where you'll see a list of transactions. Clicking on the transaction ID will take you to the Trace View page for that transaction. Learn more about using Sentry's [Performance Monitoring](/product/performance/).

Reviewer: Should we mention Insights here? That's also high level and takes you to the trace view, and that's a newer workflow that we would want to highlight over the Performance landing page. The Performance landing page is still good for seeing a list of pages/endpoints however.

Author: The "traces to trace view" section is insights :) unless I'm misunderstanding and you're thinking of a different workflow?

---
title: Tracing
sidebar_order: 20
description: "Learn how instrumenting tracing for both your frontend and backend can help identify and debug application performance issues. Distributed tracing will allow you to see the impact of errors across your full stack and microservices."
---

## What's Tracing?

Tracing is the process of capturing the timing and flow of requests and operations as they happen in your application. It's a powerful debugging tool, helping you identify which link in a sequence of events may be causing a problem, such as slow performance.

![An illustrated image of the anatomy of a trace, showing 8 span blocks cascading in a waterfall pattern.](./img/The-anatomy-of-a-trace.png)

### What's Distributed Tracing?

Distributed tracing provides a unified view of how a single request moves from the frontend to the backend and beyond. This is particularly useful in modern applications, which are often composed of multiple separate services working together. To get a distributed view of your application, instrument Sentry in both your frontend and your backend.

> With distributed tracing, you can identify performance bottlenecks that are affecting your application no matter where in your application's workflow they occur. You can then use Sentry tools such as the [Trace Explorer](/product/explore/traces/) or [Trace View](/concepts/key-terms/tracing/trace-view/) page to dig deeper and find the root cause of the problem. Distributed tracing is particularly helpful for identifying problems in production that you can't debug using console logs, such as race conditions, [N+1](/product/issues/issue-details/performance-issues/n-one-queries/), and [caching issues](/product/insights/caches/).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
With distributed tracing, you can identify performance bottlenecks that are affecting your application no matter where in your application's workflow they occur. You can then use Sentry tools such as the [Trace Explorer](/product/explore/traces/) or [Trace View](/concepts/key-terms/tracing/trace-view/) page to dig deeper and find the root cause of the problem. Distributed tracing is particularly helpful for identifying problems in production that you can't debug using console logs, such as race conditions, [N+1 queries](/product/issues/issue-details/performance-issues/n-one-queries/), and [caching issues](/product/insights/caches/).
```

> ### What's a Trace?

Reviewer 2: I feel like this section does a good job of defining a 'trace ID' but not a 'trace'. Maybe start with a sentence that's a higher level overview; like, 'A trace is a unique record of a set of related actions happening in your application.'

Author: good point!

> Each trace has a string of globally unique characters called a trace ID that's passed between frontend and backend services. The trace ID connects all the actions that take place, starting from the moment a user performs an action on the frontend, all the way through to the actions this triggers across your application and services. Each trace is composed of multiple spans.

Author: ```suggestion
A trace is a record of a series of connected events and operations coming from your application. Each trace has a string of globally unique characters called a trace ID that's passed between frontend and backend services. The trace ID connects all the actions that take place, starting from the moment a user performs an action on the frontend, all the way through to the actions this triggers across your application and services. Each trace is composed of multiple spans.
```

### What's a Span?

> A span is a named, timed operation that represents a part of the application workflow. The data captured for each span provides granular insights into specific tasks, like API requests or database queries. Multiple spans are pieced together to create a trace, providing a comprehensive overview of how your application works, to make it easier to troubleshoot and analyze performance issues.

Author: ```suggestion
A span is a named, timed operation that represents a part of the application workflow. The data captured for each span provides granular insights into specific tasks, like API requests or database queries. Multiple spans are pieced together to create a trace, providing a comprehensive overview of how your application works. This makes it easier to troubleshoot and analyze performance issues.
```

### What's a Transaction?

> In Sentry, a "transaction" is a specific unit that represents any event that your application sends to Sentry, like loading a web page or processing an API call. Each transaction is made up of smaller units called "spans," which break down individual steps within that operation. Transactions have a unique transaction ID and include the associated child spans that capture the operation’s entire process from start to finish.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In Sentry, a "transaction" is a specific unit that represents any event that your application sends to Sentry, like loading a web page or processing an API call. Each transaction is made up of one or more spans. Transactions have a unique transaction ID and include the associated child spans that capture the operation’s entire process from start to finish.
```

You defined spans above, but it feels like you are redefining them in this section.

Author: I agree, but I think that's part of the confusion between transactions/spans. They're pretty similar, but not exactly the same. And as long as we still refer to transactions in the product, I think it's better to define them than not.

## How to Use Tracing in Sentry

If you instrument Sentry for a single part of your app (just the frontend for example), looking at a trace will provide useful context for debugging issues within that app or service. But to get the most out of tracing in Sentry, you'll need to instrument the frontend, the backend, and any services in-between with Sentry's SDK. Once this is done, there are several places where you can view and interact with tracing data:

### Traces to Trace View

You can view all the traces in your organization by going to the [Traces](https://sentry.io/orgredirect/organizations/:orgslug/traces/) page in Sentry. You'll see a chart and a list of traces and be able to see at-a-glance how long each trace took to complete and the number of spans it contains.

![A view of the Sentry Traces page showing traces and spans](./img/Traces-page.png)

> If you want more information, click on any trace ID. This will take you to the [Trace View](https://sentry.io/orgredirect/organizations/:orgslug/traces/traceid/) page, which provides a more detailed view of the trace and its spans. Here, you'll see a waterfall view of the spans in the trace, which will show you how much time each service and operation took to complete, and may give you an indicator of where a problem may be coming from. Learn more about the Sentry [Trace View](/concepts/key-terms/tracing/trace-view/).

Author: ```suggestion
If you want more information, click on any trace ID. This will take you to the [Trace View](/concepts/key-terms/tracing/trace-view/) page, which provides a more detailed view of the trace and its spans. Here, you'll see a waterfall view of the spans in the trace, which will show you how much time each service and operation took to complete, and may give you an indicator of where a problem may be coming from. 
```

> If you want more information, click on any trace ID. This will take you to the [Trace View](https://sentry.io/orgredirect/organizations/:orgslug/traces/traceid/) page, which provides a more detailed view of the trace and its spans. Here, you'll see a waterfall view of the spans in the trace, which will show you how much time each service and operation took to complete, and may give you an indicator of where a problem may be coming from. Learn more about the Sentry [Trace View](/concepts/key-terms/tracing/trace-view/).

Reviewer 2: [Trace View](https://sentry.io/orgredirect/organizations/:orgslug/traces/traceid/)

This link doesn't work for me, it takes me to a page that says `The organization you were looking for was not found.`

![A detailed view of the Senty Traces page showing an expaned trace and spans](./img/Trace-view-page.png)

Alternatively, you can use the search bar to look for spans by name, project, or other criteria. You can also use the tags section to filter spans by specific tags. Learn more about the Sentry [Trace Explorer](/product/explore/traces/).

![An illustrated image of the anatomy of a trace, showing 8 span blocks cascading in a waterfall pattern.](./img/Traces-details-page.png)

### Performance to Trace View

> If you're interested in a high-level view of your application's performance, you can start from the [Performance](https://sentry.io/orgredirect/organizations/:orgslug/performance/) page in Sentry where you'll see a list of transactions. Clicking on the transaction ID will take you to the Trace View page for that transaction. Learn more about using Sentry's [Performance Monitoring](/product/performance/).

Author: ```suggestion
Depending on the size and volume of your app, you may have a lot of traces to sort through. The [Performance](https://sentry.io/orgredirect/organizations/:orgslug/performance/) page in Sentry is a good place to get a high-level, aggregated view of your application's performance and focus in on the traces you care about. You'll see a list of transactions for specific pages, endpoints and parts of your application. Clicking on the transaction ID will take you to the Trace View page for that transaction. Learn more about using Sentry's [Performance Monitoring](/product/performance/).
```

> ![A overview of the Performance page in Sentry.](./img/Performance-page.png)

Author: ```suggestion
![An overview of the Performance page in Sentry.](./img/Performance-page.png)
```
